packages/algjulia-service/README.md, before:

# AlgebraicJulia Service

This small package makes functionality from
[AlgebraicJulia](https://www.algebraicjulia.org/) available to CatColab,
intermediated by a Julia kernel running in the [Jupyter](https://jupyter.org/)
server. At this time, only a
[Decapodes.jl](https://github.com/AlgebraicJulia/Decapodes.jl) service is
provided. Other packages may be added in the future.

## Setup

1. Install [Julia](https://julialang.org/), say by using
[`juliaup`](https://github.com/JuliaLang/juliaup)
2. Install [Jupyter](https://jupyter.org/), say by using `pip` or `conda`
3. Install [IJulia](https://github.com/JuliaLang/IJulia.jl), which provides the
   Julia kernel to Jupyter
   
At this stage, you should be able to launch a Julia kernel inside a JupyterLab.

Having done that, navigate to this directory and run:

```sh
julia --project -e 'import Pkg; Pkg.instantiate()'
```

## Usage

Navigate to this directory and run:

```sh
jupyter server --IdentityProvider.token="" --ServerApp.disable_check_xsrf=True --ServerApp.allow_origin="http://localhost:5173"
```

While the Jupyter server is running, the AlgebraicJulia service will be usable
by CatColab served locally.

Commit message:

Script to build sys image for AlgebraicJulia service (#289)
* wip need to make sure jupyter server starts with sysimage

* 9s startup versus 21s startup. adding helper script

* added test precompilation statements

* removed kernel checking conditional

* Delete packages/sysimages/Manifest.toml

* CLEANUP: Move sys image scripts to main Julia dir.

Also, frontend now uses the default kernel set in the Jupyter server.

---------

Co-authored-by: Evan Patterson <evan@epatters.org>

packages/algjulia-service/README.md, after:

# AlgebraicJulia Service

This small package makes functionality from
[AlgebraicJulia](https://www.algebraicjulia.org/) available to CatColab,
intermediated by a Julia kernel running in the [Jupyter](https://jupyter.org/)
server. At this time, only a
[Decapodes.jl](https://github.com/AlgebraicJulia/Decapodes.jl) service is
provided. Other packages may be added in the future.

## Setup

1. Install [Julia](https://julialang.org/), say by using
[`juliaup`](https://github.com/JuliaLang/juliaup)
2. Install [Jupyter](https://jupyter.org/), say by using `pip` or `conda`
3. Install [IJulia](https://github.com/JuliaLang/IJulia.jl), which provides the
   Julia kernel to Jupyter
   
At this stage, you should be able to launch a Julia kernel inside a JupyterLab.

Having done that, navigate to this directory and run:

```sh
julia --project -e 'import Pkg; Pkg.instantiate()'
```

## Usage

Navigate to this directory and launch the Jupyter serving by running:

```sh
./jupyter_server.sh
```

While the Jupyter server is running, the AlgebraicJulia service will be usable
by CatColab when served locally.

## Compiling a Sysimage

Precompiling dependencies like `CairoMakie.jl` and `OrdinaryDiffEq.jl` can be
time-consuming. A **sysimage** is a file that stores precompilation statements,
making future invocations of `AlgebraicJuliaService` and its dependencies
immediate.

To build a sysimage, run the Julia program `./make_sysimage.jl` as a script.
This process may take upwards of five minutes or longer, depending on your
machine.
